=========== Wall Clock 01/02: ===========

without pendulum (just anchor):
Runs for a few hours with the 1.5kg cuckoo weight
Runs only for a few minutes with a 420g cuckoo weight

This might be improved once the pendulum is fitted - the anchor is clearly driven by the escape wheel and not by its own period
-after using wire to hold the plates in place, it has run for ~24hours with 420g

Need the weights to be further from the wall!
Need more space between chains and anchor/pendulum
-chain at front, and pendulum further away

Really do need the chain wheel at the bottom for stability
-done

Had to file away part of the bearing holder for the minute wheel to get the next wheel to fit
-done, not extending bearing holders

The gears are easily strong enoguh and could be reduced in thickness, maybe module too
-done, untested

The plates aren't really strong enough - but might be if they were closer together or printed in higher toughness
-done

The gears lose a lot of grip on the threaded rod if they have to be removed and re-threaded - will want to think about a better way of garenteeing motion from the minute wheel to the shaft - maybe a nyloc nut?
-done, but untested
nyloc nut worked, but introduces wobblyness of the wheel if it's too thin

The pendulum knife edge might need to be longer - it wobbles all over the place
-going to test having pendulum on same rod as anchor and not using knife edge for now

Pendulum bob and nut work, but the bob rotates slowly. Needs something to prevent it from doing that - usually the pendulum rod isn't round the whole way down
-planning to try nyloc nut in the bob nut (worked)

Plans for next clock:
Make bob small and round, so it doesn't matter if it rotates a bit - might need something to prevent it from loosening/tightening itself? Or will it not have this problem if it's a different shape?
Use nyloc nut to attach main wheel to the rod, then try a spring rather than just tight nuts to hold the motion works to the same rod.
Make motion works shorter - they don't need to be quite as long as they are, I'm not actually planning on hiding them behind a dial

the chainwheel could have either a section of pipe that slots over the rod, or space for one or two bearings - this should reduce the chance it turns the hands backwards when being wound up


Maybe consider making a fancy handnut piece that goes over a normal nut to make the hands slightly tidier?


============== Wall Clock 03 =============

works! Had problems with it stopping, turned out to be some globs of PETG in one of the teeth. the smaller teeth I suspect make it more suseptical to it

Will be worth far more thoroughly inspecting teeth in the future
DONE worked with clock 4

Permanently attached pendulum is a bad idea, although the anchor and pendulum on the same rod works quite well. Try some sort of hook on the rod attachment so the main pendulum can be removed?
DONE but didn't work well

The clock plates are far thicker and wider than they need to be. The width also hides the smaller gears. Future plan: make the plates as narrow as possible
DONE clock 4 looks great

the tick is less satisfying than the previous clock. Maybe go back to a larger escape wheel? Could a fully solid escape wheel without the HAC styling still go "clunk"?
DONEish clock 4 the tick is less anoying but a lot quieter in general

thoughts: having the escape wheel to the left/right of the anchor would make the clock less tall and might help with increasing the size of the gears again
Planning a "compact" clock plate design

It's very easy to knock the clock out of beat when winding up the weight or adjusting the pendulum. Some grippy pads on the back might help?
DONE stick on grippy pads from RS work really well

=================== Wall clock 04 =====================

Might be worth ensuring the bottom-side (as printed) of as many parts as possible is forwards. The bottom of the anchor is considerably more neat and tidy than the top
Could have made the design more compact (height-wise), as the large first wheel has enough space for the small second wheel to interlock
PART-DONE only anchor

The minute wheel is very wonky - looks like it's always pulled forwards by the chain. Maybe consider keeping this one thicker and reducing the size of the hole in the chain wheel, so it's got less angle to pull?
I think this has always been the case, but the large and thin minute wheel has amplified it here.
TRYING reducing diameter of hole in chain wheel, keeping chain wheel thicker and using superglue/threadlock instead of a nyloc nut

Might be worth considering printing spacers, or going back to the bearing-holderst that stick out from the clock plates. It takes a long time to get all the gears lined up when I'm manually adjusting lots of little nyloc nuts.
PLAN - output a list of measurements for where to align the nyloc nuts, and just put nyloc nuts on all arbours. Maybe consider elongating the pinion if there's not enough space for a nut?

The new deadbeat escapement seems pretty good. The pendulum does have a wide swing (need to measure, see if it really is 5deg), so for longer pendulums I'll want to reduce this a bit maybe?
THOUGHT - looking closely I'm wondering if it's over-swinging quite a lot. If I actually weight the bob down, then this should reduce? (power from escapement will then be less compared to its total mass?)
Yes - increasing mass of pendulum or reducing mass of the weight reduces overswinging. Don't know what impact that has on timekeeping yet.
not noticed much difference in timekeeping with different weights yet

There is a noticable little clunk when the chain segment leaves the chain wheel. Will be worth reducing the tolerance on that a tiny bit.

The anchor threaded slightly wonky, and is also very loose, even with the nyloc nut. Might be worth making this thicker too! Or giving it a little sticky out bit. If I overhaul this to use a bushing and knife-edge then this might fall out of that work
FIXED (made longer)

The detachable pendulum needed a nut to keep it from being too wobbly - so it didn't really work. again real bushing + knife edge would fix this
FIXED (not using real bushing yet)

The lid of the weight isn't very easy to fit
FIXED

Inspecting the teeth and using a small file on any irregularities appears to have paid off - only times gears have got stuck is because they weren't lined up and the wonky minute wheel problem.

Is it worth always having a chain wheel in future? This means the one day clocks can be mounted lower on the wall and it sidesteps the wonky minute wheel


General thought - is it worth designing a clock to be hung from the picture rail? Legs sticking out the top and bottom at the back, with a hook fairly far forwards on the top might do the job

Go back to the larger screw hole + maybe give the back plate an extra circular bulge to accomodate it?

Escape wheel - worth making the teeth not pointed? they print with a small blunt end anyway, and this way I don't need the printed length bodge
DONE (but untested)

Clock 5:
Somehow the anchor was still printed upside down, so it's still not the nice side visible!

I completely forgot about how big the weight is - it needs the pendulum away from the clock face. I'm going to try just putting it further along the rod, but it really needed some pendulumSticksOut!
I've decided to shrink the hands rather than have them stick out by miles

The arbour extensions are a fiddle to put on, but they make it much easier to assemble the clock! Worth keeping, plus I like the look.

Still not sure I got the chain wheel quite perfect for the heavier duty chain. Also, might want to beef up the lugs that hold the chain - I think they can be widened without affecting the function

IDEA - since winding up the eight day can knock it out of beat easily - how about a screw-slot at the bottom that can be used to fix it in place once it's been put in beat?

IDEA - also a tool (with long handle) to hold the anchor to make it easier to put in beat

REFACTOR - I think that the circular and vertical clock plates can be combined, they're actually very similar. Then there's only one thing to maintain

thought for the grasshopper, or others to show off the mechanism: the front plate could cover only the chain wheel (maybe the motion works and minute wheel too?), the rest of the gears have the bearing embedded in the gear itself, and are simply bolted onto the rear plate. How do I hold the pendulum?? Could I offset from the wall on little legs and have the pendulum out the back?

Can I reduce the thickness of the ratchet (the bit attached to the gear) on the chain wheel? 
Instead I've tweaked the HAC cut so it can take into account whatever is in teh middle of teh wheel

clock 5 stopped earlier - nothing wrong with the going train, but the chain on the chain wheel was in an odd position. I think maybe the chain wheel can't reliably cope with 2.5kg. Worth trying clock cord?

The weight on the eight clock fell off - I think it failed to engage with teh chain wheel. the chain was also very very stretched for only 5 days! Going to abandon chains and chain wheels for heavy weights and have a go with cord

Plan: Since the cord wheel will be wider, I could embed the ratchet inside the great wheel and have a chunky arbour as part of the print, so it's still got grip on the rod?

Idea for key to wind up: use a much wider bearing (10mm or 20mm internal diameter?) and have a cylinder on the cord wheel that ends in a square for a key. the wide bearing can slot over this cylinder instead of over the rod. Have the cord wheel still loose on the rod and the great wheel still fixed to the rod. Other end of the rod still in a bearing like now. Will be interesting to see if a cylinder of pritned petg can be strong enough to wind up the 2.5kg weight

to wind up - could gear down on the front (with another gear just screwed into the front of the plate, no need for a bearing maybe?) and that gear can have the square for a key.


clock 07:
the bottom pillar is barely wide enough to print successfully with the holes for the cord
FIXED (untested)

There is a teeny tiny amount of clearence between the screwhead that holds the clock to the wall and the second gear! Maybe sink the screwhole back a bit further?
done!
There is also barely enough clearnce between the head of the screw that holds the motion works in place and the end of the chord wheel. Not immediately sure of the best way to fix that - put the embedded screw on the inside?
Trying space for the screwhead in teh front plate

The cord wheel can end up resting against the front clock plate, with a noticable (but slight) reduction in power of the clock. I think allowing space for a washer between teh top cap and the front plate would help? If I'd left it with 2mm of wobble (end shake) it would have been fine to pop a washer in!

clock 04 has stopped being reliable after I got back from a week away. I can shove the chain wheel back a bit and then it works for a few hours. Even with the 750g weight it gets stuck. Not sure if related or not, but I think having a minimum standoff from the plates would be a good idea. This could be a washer or printed bit. Things like the anchor, cord or chain wheels need to not come into contact with the inside of the plate.


clock 06 (second attempt at an 8day)
TODO second hand is too big! doesn't fit below the sticking out bit for the anchor. DONE
Everything's a bit tight for space on the front.
TODO I think I need a larger hand avoider in order to leave enough space to reach the key. DONE
Printed back plate without the right holes for the cord, but seems to be working with cord over the side.
Front plate required lots of filing to fit the large bearing for the key, I've guesstimated a better size for the next print.
Seems to run with 2.5kg without a bob (yet), but I'll leave it going for a few days to find out!
The motion works has a lot of play and has just slipped. Does the sunk-back screw not work?
screw inside motion works should have countersunk space? On further observation, that screw is fine, it's because the motion works is now above not below the hands, so the play in the hour holder means it's too far away!
TODO reduce play in motion works - doesn't need to be as loose as it is DONE

TODO - adjust the hole for the cord in the latest design, need to take into account that it will have more than one layer of windings by shifting it further to the edge (and might need to make the pillar wider?) DONE

TODO - refactor gear style to just take inside and outside radius and style. Simplifies things for adding more styles and then can bring HAC back neatly. DONE

reprint of clock 06 with the above fixed:
threading the arbour extensions onto the rod is rediculiously hard. I could increase the inner diameter by 0.1 to eliminate that without making them too loose?
Conversly, threading the anchor on is quite loose.
bends too much with 3kg and the gears jam!!
Ran for an hour with 1.2kg, currently running with ~2kg
If it runs on the lighter weight, that's great, but I'd like to fix it for heavier weights anyway.
Thoughts as to why?
 - infil is at 0/90deg, not 51. Try 45deg next print?
 - friction pads at bottom on the back? Could try without first

 
Idea: can reduce thickness of the chain/cord wheel gear without making it wobbly by having the ratchet screwed onto the bottom and then the new top (actually the back) of the gear can include a beefed up arbour extension as part of the wheel. Can make it as thick as there's space for (will need to work out how to do that... will arbours have to become aware of each other?) and as long as there's space for (will arbours need to be aware of the plates?) Could the ClockPlate generate the completed arbours, since it already generates arbour extensions?

clock 06 again:
Stops when the anchor's arbour extension rests against the front plate. Might want to bring the third bearing back purely to stop that? Or extend the arbour all the way through the front plate?

Why not use glue to hold the cap to the cord wheel? Then I don't need to worry about the screws and can use smaller diameters if required - would need to re-think how to attach the click

IDEA - instead of the washer between anchor and back plate, why not put the escape wheel the other way around and then the anchor will be in the middle again? DONE (bit bodgey)

I have noticed the first version of clock 06 does bend, but still works. I think plate-distance reduction will be worth it

I've noticed teh hour hand is really very loose, especially when the motion works is positioned the otehr way up, as on the last two eight days. I'm wondering about tweaking the gears to try and improve this - it never got any attention as it "just worked" first time. DONE


IDEA - refactor so there's a Screw class which holds together all the useful info: thread size, head type (and sizes) and can produce cuttable shapes DONE!

Clock 10:
The standoff on the cordwheel cap needs to be taller - the thinner caps can be a bit wonky and then it is in contact with the front plate. Alternatively: go back to 2mm thick?

IDEA - to make the pendulum more rigid, increase space inside the pendulum-for-rod fixing (even more so!) so there's space to put an extra nut above the nyloc nut, to turn against it and really fix that in place. combined with the extra nuts on the outside of the hand-avoider, then the whole pendulum rod shouldn't rotate when adjustin the bob

8 day clock thoughts: go back to minimum of 2mm thick gears and increase the drop when using a pulley instead. This might be more robust overall

Fixing keywound cord: try the 4mm pipe for the wheel, fixing the cord winder to the rod.
Try making the end cap part of the print, using a 45deg slope outwards to a much smaller diameter cap - should stop the cord getting stuck down the gap and make the end cap much less likely to bend and rub up against the front plate

clock 10 stopped working - the front cap of the cord wheel is wedged against the front plate from the cord coiled up behind it. I'm planning to re-print the whole cordwheel to try out the latest tweaks (and the steel pipe) to fix this clock without printing an entire new clock. Clock 10 from the tag:
Plate distance 28.8
[93, 10]
layers of cord: 5, cord per hour: 1.3cm to 0.8cm min diameter: 21.0mm
runtime: 191.9hours over 1.9m. Chain wheel multiplier: 9.3
chainwheel: module 1, 93 teeth, thick 4mm

IDEA: maybe a small m2 screw inside the hole in the cord wheel, so I can tie the end of teh cord to that rather than a messy knot around the whole wheel
- maybe if I had some M1.5s or smaller

IDEA - hour hand could slot onto a circular slot like the minute hand, it doesn't need the tapered bit and this makes it easier to be close to the minute hand.
DONE (but too loose!)

14 grasshopper:
- chain wheel attached to first wheel still had loose arbour hole, so I had to use superglue to get that arbour stable. DONE
- If I'd made the module size slightly larger, the motion works could be behind the escape wheel with just the hand in front! DONE
- text on the back was hidden partly by wall offset - DONE
- grasshopper is slightly wonky because it sticks out a way in front. I've worked around it by tweaking dimensions, so it runs as it is, but might want to but an extra plate (half plate?) on the front. I could hide the motion works behind it and even put a dial on it!
- Need to make motino works more thin to fit behind escape wheel
- Improve the pulley - going to try using steel tube instead of a bearing. Also want to make it thinner. I think I can print the pulley wheel in one go too